---
layout: post
title: CIR WebDevelopment RTE 2017
date: 2017-07-06 00:01:00
description: My experience at a web development workshop.
tags: foss web-dev django
categories: technology
---
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/webdev.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I was a part of the Web Development workshop conducted at Amrita University. Two weeks before the event, we had a briefing session on why it was important to attend such workshops, and how it would help us in the future. That is what motivated me to join. This was my first time attending a full-fledged technical skill workshop, and I found it very informative and interesting.

I was part of a group of roughly 12–15 other first-year students, most of them from CSE. We were working with HTML, CSS, JS and Python, mentored by Chirath R, one of our third-year students, who is also the head of the Web Development team at the FOSS Club, here at Amritapuri.

It was a two-week program, organized by the CIR team to improve our technical skills, thus making us more marketable for job providers. We started off with the basics of HTML, adding simple text and a few user interface components, before moving on to CSS and JavaScript, in order to make our web pages more efficient.

We were soon introduced to Python, to run the back end for our websites. The final aim was to create our own blog, complete with administrative privileges. Django was going to help us in achieving that. Django is an open-source web framework written in Python. Although most of us had a bit of a tough time understanding Django and Python, our mentor was extremely helpful and was never hesitant to clear our doubts, no matter how small.

As the days went by, we started becoming more familiar with Django, and before long we had a fully equipped blog site in our hands. It felt good to have built something we could call our own. We hosted it using [PythonAnywhere](http://www.pythonanywhere.com/), a free web hosting service. In the end, even though my short summer break was cut short even further by this workshop, I was glad I joined.

I also had the good fortune of being selected to join the FOSS Club at Amrita. It was a golden opportunity to improve my technical and communication skills, being mentored by the best. Overall, things turned out well!

[My Internship Project](https://github.com/navisk13/myblog) 

[FOSS@Amrita](https://amfoss.in/)