---
layout: post
title: Learn how to hack
date: 2020-09-14 00:01:00
description: Get your fundamentals right to learn how to break things.
tags: security pentesting off-sec
categories: technology
---
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hack_1.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

So, you want to learn how to hack? This is the place for you, then. You have made your first step into the world of hacking. Before reading on, you need to know that hacking is not always like the movies portray it. There is no magical command you can run to hack into your neighbour’s WiFi or your partner’s phone. That’s not how it works. Hacking (also known as penetration testing) is an art. It’s the art of thinking different, constant learning and breaking things.

The first fundamental thing you need is a firm grip on how to use an operating system, especially Linux. Contrary to popular belief, mastering an operating system doesn’t just mean knowing how to boot the system up and transfer files. You need to master how to use the command line. By the time you’re done, you should reach a level of expertise where you hardly need your mouse anymore, as you can control your computer with just your keyboard and the command line.

There are numerous free resources on the internet to learn how to use the Linux command-line. Learning how to use the Windows command prompt is essential too, especially when you’re hacking into a Windows machine, but for starters, let’s begin with Linux. Make sure you know how to use Linux terminal commands inside out. The more you develop your Linux command-line skills, the easier it will be for you to hack into and navigate your way through a machine.

Of course, to learn how to use the Linux command line, you need to have a Linux machine, right? You can use a Linux-based OS on virtualisation software like VirtualBox, or you can switch your computer’s operating system into a Linux-based one for a smoother experience. Since we’re all hackers here, it’s best to go with an operating system built for security, such as ParrotOS or Kali Linux. These come with pre-installed tools for all your hacking needs, so that you don’t have to go through all the hassle of installing each tool yourself.

> Never underestimate the determination of a kid who is time-rich and cash-poor.
> 
> -- Eshan Singh

Another important concept you need to know about is the fundamentals of computer networks. It is useful to understand how each device is identified in a network, how they communicate with each other and how data is shared between devices. Knowledge about the security side of computer networks, such as IDS and IPS systems is a huge advantage as well.

Knowledge about concepts of programming is a useful skill to have in your arsenal. You might have heard that the field of cybersecurity does not require programming skills, but that’s not entirely true. All the tools you use and the scripts you run while trying to hack into a system are written in some programming language, and in many cases, you’ll have to make some tweaks to the code you’re running to make it work. Languages like Python, Perl, Ruby and PHP are the ones used most frequently, but knowledge of other languages like Java and C helps as well.

You’ll also need to know how websites work; how they’re built (frontend and backend) and how our devices connect to them over the internet. This is especially helpful when you hack into websites and their servers, which is usually where you’d start. Once you get a hang of that, you can move on to other penetration testing domains if you wish.

The last, and probably the most important thing you need to start hacking is a hacker attitude. Be prepared to never let your mind rest; curiosity is key here. Learn as much as you can every day. Break into anything you get your hands on. The first thing you need to do when you find something new is to figure out how it works. That’s the only way to inculcate the attitude of a hacker within you. Once you’re in that mode, there are no limits to what you can do. Happy hacking!