---
layout: post
title: Toppo - Vulnhub
date: 2024-04-02 00:01:00
description: A walkthrough of the machine “Toppo” on Vulnhub.
tags: ctf-walkthrough exam-prep pentesting
categories: ctf
---

This is a walkthrough of the machine called Toppo on Vulnhub. It’s an extremely easy one, perfect for beginners.

Link to the machine: [https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/toppo-1,245/](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/toppo-1,245/)

The machine gave me the IP address directly when I powered it on in my VirtualBox, so I did not have to do a netdiscover scan.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Next, I did a full-port nmap scan to check the open ports.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo nmap -p- 192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Once I knew which ports were open, I targeted just these ports in my detailed nmap scan.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo nmap -sC -sV -p22,80,111,59159 192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I started by checking out the website on port 80.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

It was a pretty straightforward blog page, without much interesting information for the challenge. So I decided to perform a directory enumeration scan using dirb.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">dirb http://192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_5.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I got an interesting directory admin, which was indexable on the browser.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_6.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

In it was a note that helped me solve the first half of the challenge.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_7.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I found a possible password “12345ted123” in the note. But I did not have a username, and there was no login form I could find anywhere on the website. So I decided to try and login via ssh using this password, and the username “ted” which I guessed from the password itself.

And voilà, I was able to get in.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">ssh ted@192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_8.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

After getting in, I explored a bit, and found that I could not execute the sudo command. I could not find any other files that could contain some clues. So I decided to check for SUID enabled binaries.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">find / -perm -u=s 2>/dev/null</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_9.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Python was SUID enabled, which could help me for sure. I checked GTFOBins to see how I could escalate to root using python.

[https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/python/](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/python/)

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_10.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I ran the command as it is, but my shell did not like the -p flag (which was expected from the description on GTFOBins), so I removed the flag and ran the command again, and sure enough I got root permissions.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">/usr/bin/python2.7 -c 'import os; os.execl("/bin/sh", "sh")'</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_11.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now all that was left to do was to read the flag at `/root`.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/toppo/toppo_12.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

And that’s it for this challenge! I hope you enjoyed this walkthrough. Happy hacking!