---
layout: post
title: W34KN3SS - Vulnhub
date: 2024-04-01 00:01:00
description: A walkthrough of the machine “W34KN3SS” on Vulnhub.
tags: ctf-walkthrough exam-prep pentesting
categories: ctf
---

This is a writeup of the machine called weakness (W34KN3SS) on Vulnhub. Getting the user shell was a tad bit challenging, but overall it’s a relatively easy machine if you figure out what to do.

Link to machine: [https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/w34kn3ss-1,270/](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/w34kn3ss-1,270/)

I set the machine up on my VirtualBox. First, I found the IP address using netdiscover.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo netdiscover -i eth0</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I got the IP address as 192.168.1.35. Next, I did an nmap scan to check for open ports and the services running on them.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo nmap -sC -sV 192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

SSH port 22 was open, along with http port 80 and https port 443. I also found a domain name weakness.jth which I added to my /etc/hosts file.

I checked out the webpage on port 80, which had a nice little art of a bunny, along with a possible username n30.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I did not find anything else interesting, so I did a dirb scan.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">dirb http://192.168.1.35</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I got a few directories, out of which the /test directory was the most interesting. I could access it only using https.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_5.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

This is a possible clue. Keys may refer to SSH keys probably, and it seems the challenge is related to the Matrix movie, which means the username n30 I found earlier probably stands for “Neo”.

Anyway, other than this I could not find anything much even after using different wordlists and I was stuck for a while. Then, I decided to try running a dirb scan using the domain name weakness.jth, and I found something very useful.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">dirb http://weakness.jth /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/big.txt</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_6.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

The robots.txt file did not have anything very interesting, but the /private directory had a few clues. I could access the private directory only using http port 80.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_7.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I found an SSH public key, as well as a text file notes.txt. The contents of notes.txt was as follows.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_8.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

It mentions an openSSL version. I did not know what to do with this information at first, but then I checked for exploits for this version, and found that there are only a limited number of keys that could be generated using this openSSL version, and hence can be brute forced.

[https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/5622](https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/5622)

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_9.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

There was a link to a tar file with all the possible keys on this page, which I followed to download the file.

[https://gitlab.com/exploit-database/exploitdb-bin-sploits/-/blob/main/bin-sploits/5622.tar.bz2](https://gitlab.com/exploit-database/exploitdb-bin-sploits/-/blob/main/bin-sploits/5622.tar.bz2)

Then I extracted the contents of the tar file using `tar -xvf 5622.tar.bz2` and then used grep to find the corresponding private key to the public key I found.

In the command, -r stands for recursive, to search directories recursively, and -l is to print just the name of the files which have a match with the contents of the public key.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">grep -r -l "<-public-key->"</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_10.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

And I got a match! Now, I just had to use the corresponding private key to sign in via SSH. To do so, first I copied the private key to my Desktop using cp. Make sure you copy the private key, which is the file with the same name as the public key we found using grep, except it does not have the .pub extension. I copied it and named the file “realkey”.

Now, in order to login via SSH, I checked which flag can be used using `ssh -help` and found that -i could be used to prove identity, which seems suitable.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_11.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now all I had to do was login. I tried the username I found earlier, n30, and it worked.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">ssh n30@192.168.1.35 -i realkey</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_12.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I also got the user flag.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_13.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Along with the flag, I also found another file “code”, which turned out to be a compiled python file.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_14.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I could not find any other clues, so I decided to move this file to my local machine and try to see what I could find with it. To transfer the file, I used SimpleHTTPServer and wget.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">On the target machine: python -m SimpleHTTPServer</code>
</div>

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">On my local machine: wget http://192.168.1.35:8000/code</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_15.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Next, I tried decompiling the file. First, I added the .pyc extension to it and then used [https://www.toolnb.com/tools-lang-en/pyc.html](https://www.toolnb.com/tools-lang-en/pyc.html) to decompile it. And I found a password for n30.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_16.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

After a bit of cleaning, the final password I found was `dMASDNB!!#B!#!#33`.

Using this, I checked n30’s permissions, and found that he could run any command he wanted to.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo -l</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_17.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

So I could easily escalate to root and get the root flag.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo su</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_18.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

With this, the challenge is complete and we can exit the simulation :P.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/weakness/weakness_19.gif" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

And that’s it! I hope you enjoyed this walkthrough. Happy hacking!

