---
layout: post
title: Blue (TCM Security PEH Capstone)
date: 2024-12-14 00:01:00
description: A walkthrough of the machine “Blue” on TCM Security's PEH Course.
tags: ctf-walkthrough exam-prep pentesting
categories: ctf
---

This is a walkthrough of the machine called "Blue".

You can download the machine, along with all the other machines in the PEH Capstone here: [PEH Capstone VMs](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1xJy4ozXaahXvjbgTeJVWyY-eUGIKgCj1)

I set up the machine on VMWare, with both Kali and Blue on the same NAT network. First, let's find the IP address of the machine using Netdiscover.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo netdiscover -i eth0</code>
</div>

I got the IP address as 192.168.208.130.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now, let's do a basic full port scan to see all the open ports on the machine.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo nmap -p- 192.168.208.130</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now that we got all the open ports, we can do a more detailed targeted scan on these ports.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">sudo nmap -sC -sV -A -p135,139,445,49152,49153,49154.49155,49156 192.168.208.130</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

This gives us a lot of details, including the services on each port. We can see that the SMB service seems to be the focus here, as we do not have any other commonly seen services such as HTTP/HTTPS or SSH running. We got information about the OS version of our target as well.

Since the machine is running the SMB service, let's try and enumerate it further. Our scan did not give us a lot of information about the SMB version, so let's use a specific Nmap script to get that info.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: larger;">
  <code style="font-family: monospace;">nmap -p139 --script smb-protocols 192.168.208.130</code>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

We got a huge clue here, where nmap itself told us that the SMB v1 that's running on the machine is dangerous. So I went and searched for SMB v1 vulnerabilities on Google, and up came the most popular SMB vulnerability MS17-010.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_5.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

I went searching for exploits for this vulnerability, and found a metasploit module that can help us with this.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_6.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now that that's sorted, I fired up metasploit and got to work. First, I had to set my target as Windows 7 (we got this from the Nmap scan).

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_7.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

 I also specified my target IP in RHOSTS.

 <div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_8.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

Now all I had to do was run the exploit, and I got a meterpreter shell!

I then switched to a proper shell, and checked my user, and sure enough, I was already root!

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ctf/blue/blue_9.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

This brings us to the end of this machine. Hope you liked it.

Happy Hacking!